Automatic update suggestions for TRE software (#136)
sa-tre/satre-specification: docs/source/pillars/computing_technology.md

  - Reproducibility of analyses improves auditability and accountability of how data has been used, as well as being best-practice in research.
    This may include version control software, and tools for developing and running data analysis pipelines.
  - Recommended

> * - Where possible, the TRE should automatically apply updates for user software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* - Where possible, the TRE should automatically apply security related updates for user software.
```
The downside of automatic updates is the software vendor makes a breaking change to an API, functionality, or UI.

  - TRE users will benefit from the latest versions of software being installed on the TRE, to maximise the functionality at their disposal.

>     TREs that have internet access from the environment should have their software updated periodically to get the latest patches.

Author: I wasn't sure about this - in my head, a TRE with internet could apply updates to software via the internet, whereas a TRE without internet might need to have some or all of the TRE infrastructure redeployed with the newer software versions installed

>     TREs that have internet access from the environment should have their software updated periodically to get the latest patches.

Reviewer: We could take this sentence out? As with some other capabilities software updates are a more general requirement that aren't specific to TREs, so I don't think we need to go into too much detail.

>     TREs that use configuration management tools can keep a record of the software installed when they were set up, including software versions.

Author: @JimMadge ^ this is more what I meant

>     TREs that use configuration management tools can keep a record of the software installed when they were set up, including software versions.

Reviewer 2: Do you mean,

>  TREs can keep a record of the software installed when they were set up, including software versions, via configuration management tools.

I still don't see what influence configuration management has here. You could keep records of the software whether or not you use configuration management (your package manager almost certainly does this already). I'm not sure using configuration management would make that any easier.

>     TREs that use configuration management tools can keep a record of the software installed when they were set up, including software versions.

Reviewer 3: It's also likely that configuration management will be higher level (eg. "this TRE needs Microsoft Office installed") rather than at the level of package versions (eg. "we have v16.74 of Microsoft Word installed").

>     TREs that use configuration management tools can keep a record of the software installed when they were set up, including software versions.

Reviewer 3: Configuration can be either imperative or declarative. The difference is basically the difference between telling your configuration software: "make sure that Microsoft Office is installed" or "install version v16.74 of Microsoft Word then install v16.70 of Microsoft Excel" etc.

These are both valid ways of specifying your configuration - my point is just that you can't assume that all configuration systems actually do have a config file somewhere that says "install this version of X and this version of Y", especially if you're also giving an instruction like "keep these package up-to-date".

>     TREs that use configuration management tools can keep a record of the software installed when they were set up, including software versions.

Reviewer: I'd separate configuration management from recording software versions. The former say how something is done, the latter is a form of auditing where you're identifying what software and versions are installed. If you're using config-management to build immutable images then you can get the software versions at the same time, but if you've e.g. got a large fleet of VMs that update themselves occasionally the update system will break for no reason. In this situation you might have an auditing agent that reports software versions. You might be able to remediate incorrect versions with a config management system but I think this gets into too much detail.

>     TREs that use configuration management tools can keep a record of the software installed when they were set up, including software versions.

Author: I've removed this for now, I think if we want to include something about recording software versions we can do so elsewhere, and IAC is covered elsewhere in "Deployment management"

* - You must be able to replace a non-compliant TRE with a compliant system.
  - This might involve reconfiguring a running system or by replacing it with a compliant one.
  - Mandatory
* - You should ensure the TRE automatically applies updates for software used for configuring user or management infrastructure, as well as any anti-virus/malware.
  - This includes any software used for remote desktop portals, databases, webapps, configuration management or software used for logging within the TRE.
    Doing so will ensure that the latest software patches are installed and reduce the risk of expoitable vulnerabilities in the TRE infrastructure.

>   - Mandatory

Reviewer 3: Also this feels like it's "turtles all the way down" - if you're using a browser on your laptop to configure the infrastructure then this has to be up-to-date, ... but so does the tool that you use to update your browser, ... and so does the OS that you're running on, ... and so does the upstream provider of OS updates etc.

>   - Mandatory

Author: Sure, but having a part of the spec that not only says "everything should be updated" for basic IT security reasons but also "here are some of the examples of the TRE components you'd need to be updating" seems like it could be useful? Going by the questions in #60

>   - Mandatory

Reviewer: This is one area where we either need the definitions of "User infrastructure" and "Management infrastructure" to make sense, or we don't mention them individually. This also gets ambiguous in the cloud, e.g. if you're using the cloud providers log aggregation service then there's nothing to update.

>   - Mandatory

Author: I'm not sure what to do with this one - it seems like we need it to satisfy #60 - would anyone like to suggest or an edit, or should we remove? @manics I've copied the examples of user infrastructure and management infrastructure from that issue, but do we need a clearer definition?

* - You must be able to replace a non-compliant TRE with a compliant system.
  - This might involve reconfiguring a running system or by replacing it with a compliant one.
  - Mandatory
* - You should ensure the TRE automatically applies updates for software used for configuring user or management infrastructure, as well as any anti-virus/malware.

>   - This includes any software used for remote desktop portals, databases, webapps, configuration management or software used for logging within the TRE.

Author: LGTM

* - You must be able to replace a non-compliant TRE with a compliant system.
  - This might involve reconfiguring a running system or by replacing it with a compliant one.
  - Mandatory
* - You must ensure the TRE has a process in place for applying security updates for software used for configuring and running infrastructure, as well as any anti-virus/malware.

>   - This includes any software used for remote desktop portals, databases, webapps, creating and destroying compute infrastructure, configuration management, or software used for monitoring the TRE.

Reviewer 2: Echoing @jemrobinson's point about turtles all the way down here.

The way it is written says to me "If you deploy/configure the TRE from your personal computer, the TRE organisation is responsible for enforcing software updates and anti-virus on that system".

For example, DSH at the moment would fail this requirement.

Author: @JimMadge do you think James' updated wording works?

> * - You must ensure the TRE has a process in place for applying security updates for software used for configuring and running infrastructure, as well as any anti-virus/malware.
>   - This includes any software used for remote desktop portals, databases, webapps, creating and destroying compute infrastructure, configuration management, or software used for monitoring the TRE.
>   - Mandatory

Reviewer 3: Perhaps something like:

```suggestion
* - The TRE operators must have a process in place for applying security updates to all software that forms part of the TRE infrastructure. They must also run regular anti-virus/malware scans on all TRE systems where infection could be a problem.
  - This includes any software used for remote desktop portals, databases, webapps, creating and destroying compute infrastructure, configuration management, or software used for monitoring the TRE.
  - Mandatory
```
